---
author: Team Koding
date: 2014-09-02
categories: [koding, domain]
---


<!--
# Koding and Domains

In this guide we'll go over some basic information about domains and 
Koding.
-->


# Custom Domains with your Koding VM

Koding VMs support custom domains as long as your domain provider 
supports one of the following record types.

- CNAME Record
- A Record

## Find your VM Address

First, you'll need to find and copy your [VM Address][vm hostname]. To 
find this, please refer to [this guide][vm hostname] - But it will look 
something like the address below:

```
ulkk3a3a4bb3.joshmurray.koding.io
```

## Create Your Domain Record

Next, you'll need to create and configure either a **CNAME** Record, or 
an **A Record** with your domain provider.

To configure either of these record types, refer to your providers guides 
and create the record type which you prefer.

Once you have created it, paste in the VM Address from above to the 
Record Value. This will point your Domain to the Address that the host 
resolves to.

## The Waiting Game

If the record you are creating is new, it should resolve very quickly. If 
however, it is an older record you must wait for the cache to expire. 
This may take anywhere from 5 minutes to 24 hours.

If it has not been resolved after a day, ensure that you used the proper 
VM Address *(as shown above)*. If it is correct, try contacting your 
Domain Provider and ensure that they are able to use Addresses rather 
than IPs in their record values.

## Can I use my VMs IP?

For technical reasons, free VMs have rotating IPs. After your VM goes 
offline, it is not guaranteed to boot up with the same IP. This means 
that you **should not** use your VMs IP as the record value if you're 
**not** using an Always-On VM.

If however your VM is Always-On, an IP should work, as long as your VM is 
not shutdown. For more information on Always-On VMs, see the [Pricing 
Page][pricing].



[vm hostname]: /faq/vm-hostname
[pricing]: https://koding.com/Pricing
